Q1) Explain:
>>What is symmetric encryption?
>>What is asymmetric encryption?
>>How do they differ?

Symmetric encryption, also called secret-key encryption, is a cryptographic method in which data is encrypted and decrypted using the same key. This means that if we have
2 parties involved the sender and the receipient, the same key should be distributed to the both of them. This means that apart from trnsfering data from the sender to the 
receipient securely, there is need of a secure algorithm and method to share the key too. It is less complex and easy to implement but however it is less secure because if 
a third party gets hold of the key they will be able to access private data. It is more efficient to use on large data like VPNs Databases, Bulk File Encryption
Common symmetric encryption algorithms include:
                        1. DES (Data Encryption Standard)
                        2. 3DES (Triple DES)
                        3. BlowFish
                        4. ChaCha20
                        5. Fernet (wrapper around symmetric encryption)

                                                                                                                    

Asymmetric encryption, also called public-key encryption, is a cryptographic method in which data is encrypted and decrypted using different or distinct keys. This means
that data is encrypted using one key and then decrypted using another key. It is more complex and hard to implement than symmetric. It is however more secure. If there 
are 2 parties, the sender and the receipient, there is no need to share any key since they both are using differnet keys. The sender encrypts data using the receipient's 
public key and the receipient will decrypt the data using his/her private key. It's primary use is SSL/TLS, key exchange and digital signatures. 
Common asymmetric encryption algorithms:
                        1. ECC (Elliptic Curve Cryptograph)
                        2. RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman)
                        3. DH (Diffie-Hellman)
                        4. DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm)

Q2) Explain how is hashing different from encryption?
Encryption: It is the conversion of plain text into cipher text, that is from readable and understandable text to a gibberish and confusing characters.
            Enrypted data can be decrypted back to plain text again. Encryption is usually used on data to store, send or process data that will be needed
            again in the future. The data will be required as plain text later. The is usually used in password managers. It requires an encrypting and decrypting key
            Some encryption algorihtms include: RSA, ECC
Hashing: It is a 1 way process in which a hash is generated using a hash function from input provided. Hashing is irrevessible meaning hashed data cannot be retrieved
         on a later date. It is usually used to store authenticating details in databases or files. A new given hash will be compared with the stored hash to see if you are
         who you claim to be. Some hashing algorithms include:
                                                        1. SHA256
                                                        2. Argon2
                                                        3. bcrypt

Q3) Explain Key Derivative Functions (KDFs)
    Research:
        PBKDF2
        bcrypt
        scrypt
        Argon2
KDFS
It is a cryptographic algorithm that derive one or more secret keys from one master key or password. KDFs are designed to high-entropy, mathematiclly secure keys. They act as a bridge between weak human readable passwords and strong binary keys suitable for algorithms like AES. Raw passwords often lack sufficient entropy and are vulnerable to brute-force attacks. KDFs deliberately increase computational cost to slow attackers.

>>PBKDF2 (Password Based Key Derivative Factor 2):
        It was realesed in 2000. It chains a standard cryptographic function (like SHA256) inside an HMAC loop, repeating the process thousands of times. 
        However, it is CPU-bound. It uses no memory, it only requires processing power therefore hackers can use specialized Application Specific Intergrated
        Circut (ASIC) chips or GPUs to claculate PBKDF2 hashes simultaneously, making it easy and cheap to crack.
    
>> bcrypt
       It was realesed in 1999. It uses a modified key setup from BlowFish block cipher, running an expensive loop called **EksBlowfishsetup** . It require a fixed small amount of memory (4kb) to store the lookup table (S-table) that it constantly mutates.The constant 4kb memory slows down the  GPU because their onboard memory setups aren't optimized for 
       random table lookup. However the required memory is a fixed  4kb which cannot be scaled up as modern computer hardware becomes faster.

>>scrypt
        It was released in 2009. It was designed to specifically defeat the ASIC and GPU dominance by intoducing configurable memory-hardness. It fills a massive chunk of RAM with pseudo-RAM data and then sequentially reads the data in a chaotic and unpredictive pattern. However if configured with very high memeory requirements, it can cause significant performance lag on lower-end server.
>>Argon2
        It was released in 2015. It is a peak evolution of memory-hard functions.It offers granular control over 3 distinct dimensions; Time (iterations), Memory (RAM in kb), Parallelism(Number of Threads to use)

Q4)  Explain What is a salt? Why is it added before hashing?

A salt is a string of randomly generated characters that is added to a password before it is hashed. A salt is there to add uniqueness to a password hash. Beacuse two given inputs can generate the same hash, and also the same password generate the same hash too (for example  Password123 will generate the same hash anytime), a salt is there to make sure that the passwords stored in the database are unique and different from each other. A salt also help prevent rainbow table attacks by adding complexity to the cracking process. Whan we are hashing, the salt, password, hash function, and  iterations are given to the hash funtion and the password is hashed for as long as it is still iterating making it time consuming to crack, resource consuming. Salts are stored alongside password hashes because their purpose is uniqueness rather than secrecy.

Q5) Research and explain:
        Integrity
        Authentication
        MAC
        HMAC
        Digital Signatures

>>Integrity
The assurance that data have not been tampered with, modified or corrupted in transit
>>Authentication
It is the verifying if identity of a person, system, device or source of a specific piece of information before giving them access to a resource.
>>MAC (Message Authentication Code)
It is a short piece of information that is used to authenticate a message and prove its integrity. It requires a shared symmetric key known only by the sender and the receiver. However it does not prove non-repudiation since one party (sender or receiver) can modify the memssage and blame the other part.
>>HMAC (Hash Based MAC)
It is a more secure method of authenticating a message and prove its integrity. It is a secure type of MAC that uses secure algorithms like SHA256 and secret cryptographic keys
>>Digital Signature
Digital signatures work by signing data using the sender's private key. The receiver verifies authenticity using the sender's public key.